i'm going to take you on a virtual tour
around the titanic
before her crash of course let's see
together just what kind of a luxury
vessel it was
first of all of course just look at the
size of her
the titanic was one of the biggest ocean
liners of her time
rivaled only by her sister ships olympic
and britannic
even by today's standard she's quite
impressive
but let's not stay outside for too long
and proceed on board
we climb up to the b deck where most of
the first class passengers entered the
ship
it was the second highest deck the
gangways were on the port
a left side but entrances mirrored each
other on both sides
we find ourselves in a foyer with three
doors the one on our right
opens on a private promenade from which
vip passengers could enjoy the ocean
view with the comfort of lounge chairs
all on her own
and the two doors in the front lead to
the grand staircase
the view immediately stunned everyone
and no surprise here
the staircase was the pride and glory of
the titanic
this magnificence was made of oak and
wrought iron
decorated with intricate patterns all
made by hand
its centerpiece was simply mesmerizing a
masterful wooden carving with a clock in
it
and above there was a beautiful glass
dome meant to create an illusion of
daylight
the stairs led to other decks but if you
didn't feel like walking
you could go around a bit for the three
elevators they would take you to decks
from a to e
those were reserved for the first and
second class passengers
while the third class had most of the f
deck and part of g
deck for themselves
the four doors in the corners of the
stairway hall led to the passenger
cabins
surprisingly the corridors were pretty
narrow and people
almost had to squeeze as if they met
each other on their way to or from their
rooms
only two persons could go abreast in
there
let's turn to the right from the
entrance and walk down one of the
corridors
there's something i want to show you
first of all on the right
is the entrance to the huge suite
consisting of three connected cabins
this is where the notorious joseph bruce
ismay lived the chairman of white star
line that owned the ship
b-52 was a sitting room where he
received guests and talked business
b-54 and b-56 were two bedrooms
with a bathroom between them
[Music]
further down the corridor on both left
and right resided other distinguished
passengers
including benjamin guggenheim in b82
you might remember him from the 1997
movie
and when we get to the end of the
hallway look to your left
familiar isn't it yep titanic had not
one but
two grand staircases one in the four
castle which we saw earlier
and one in the aft
now on our left is a reception room
where passengers could wait in comfort
before the restaurant's doors opened and
behind the door
right there is cafe parisian decorated
with live vines and having big windows
it was designed for first and second
class passengers to have refreshment
while enjoying the wonderful views it
was one of the many innovations on the
luxury ocean liner
right next to the cafe was the
restaurant where the wealthier
passengers had their meals
there were 138 seats overall and
passengers could book them in advance
the menu hung right before the entrance
and guests were also
accommodated with coat hangers and hat
hooks so they could leave their
outerwear in a recess
outside the main dining hall each table
was decorated with a vase of live
flowers
and waiters were always at the ready
when the guests came in
on the other side of the restaurant were
the doors to the entrance landing for
second class passengers
from there you could get to the second
class bar laboratories
and a big smoke room as well as a large
promenade
let's not go far from the entrance
landing though from here
we'll follow one deck up to the a deck
reserved exclusively for first class
passengers
the deck is divided into three main
parts the one we're in right now
is the veranda cafe and palm court
similar accommodations were made on both
the titanic sister ships
but unlike them this one had a roof that
protected guests from the elements
so they could relax and have some
refreshments in any weather
live potted plants stood everywhere
creating a peaceful and elegant
atmosphere
behind the double sliding doors was the
first class promenade deck
the largest one on the whole ship at its
widest
the deck could easily accommodate 10
people walking abreast
it ringed the whole a deck and small
alcoves were used to store deck chairs
that passengers could rent and lounge in
[Music]
following the deck to the forecastle we
come across the first class smoke room
a huge hall meant for having talks and
relaxing
further ahead was of course the grand
staircase let's go there
by the way directly to the right of the
stairs you can see a cabin entrance
here frances brown lived whom we have to
thank for many photos of the titanic and
her passengers before its crash
he left her in queenstown ireland and
later sold his pictures to newspapers
around the world
finally closer yet to the bow of the
ship was the lounge styled after the
versailles in france which connected
with the reading and writing room on the
other end
the lodge was indeed a magnificent place
where the richest of passengers spent
their time in talks or contemplation
let's follow down the corridor to the
forecastle grand stairway again
and go two decks down there's something
interesting there too
here we are on the sea deck let's save
us several minutes of walking and skip
the whole mid part of the ship
to the second grand stairway on the
right there was the first class barber
shop
the barber augustus weichmann stayed
with the ship during the disaster
but was fortunately rescued later
and on the left was maids and valets
saloon
where servants of the first class
passengers had their meals
in stark contrast to the passenger
facilities it was really simple
with long tables accommodating up to
eight people and no decorations
whatsoever
hey since we've started skipping already
why not do it again
here we go we've teleported to the d
deck almost right beneath where we were
standing just a few moments ago
it's the first class dining saloon the
largest meal area for the first class
passengers
it accommodated over 500 guests seated
at round tables
perhaps the most distinguishing feature
here were the decorative colonnades
dividing the hall in three parts and the
faux windows that covered the deck
portholes
creating a pleasant impression second
class dining saloon was also on the d
deck but closer to the stern let's go
there
it was only slightly less posh than the
first glass alone
with long tables placed closer to each
other but the mahogany pillars and
furniture along with white ceiling and
soft
lighting made the place look spacious
the saloon could seat all second class
passengers on board at once
now let's divert a little and make a bit
of comparison
here's what the third class dining room
looked like located in the middle of f
deck
it was a very plain looking hall divided
into four sections
long simple tables could seat up to 22
people
light fixtures on the ceiling were just
enough to make quite dim illumination
coat hangers were fixed along the bare
whitewashed walls
and no attempt was made to beautify the
portholes from here though
like third class passengers and the crew
we can get upstairs to a very peculiar
place
the scotland road it was a long corridor
on the left side of the titanic
and it ran across the whole length of
the ship on the e-deck
giving quick access to many of her areas
for third class passengers
and especially the crew the corridor was
named after the major road in liverpool
from which many of the crew members
hailed when the ship started sinking
the scotland road flooded among the
first and it was the main reason why the
titanic listed to the left
eventually it broke into two when the
ship cracked
on the topic of the ship's crew areas
let's travel to the reciprocating engine
room
on the orlop deck behold the mighty
engines of the titanic
this room was by far the largest on the
ship
accommodating two engines either of them
four stories tall
boiler rooms provided them with steam on
which they ran
and their shafts ran all the way up to
the foremost boat deck
let's go there for the view now shall we
the main attraction of the boat deck
apart from the bridge was the gymnasium
here first class passengers and their
children could exercise and generally
have fun
for an ocean liner of the time it was
the most striking innovation
among the most popular exercise machines
was the electric camel
you could sit on top of it trying to
stay in the saddle while the device
walked imitating a camel during the
titanic's last hours
lots of passengers gathered in the
gymnasium waiting to board the lifeboats
okay now let's go outside to the first
class promenade
and just enjoy the outstanding view of
the ocean
it's beautiful here isn't it i don't
even want to go back to reality now but
oh well time to do something else it was
nice talking to you though
see you next time